h1. oui_soundcloud

* "Introduction":#introduction
* "Plugin management":#plugin-management
* "Tags and parameters":#tags-and-parameters
* "Examples":#examples
* "Credits":#credits

h2. Introduction

"oui_soundcloud":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_soundcloud is a "oui_player":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_player v2+ extension to easily embed "Soundcloud":https://soundcloud.go.com/ provided player in "Textpattern":https://textpattern.com/ powered websites.

The above platform serves cookies with its player, according to the EU legislation, you should warn your users about these cookies before they are added. This can be done by using "oui_cookie":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_cookie.

h3. Plugin requirements

oui_soundcloud's minimum requirements:

* "Textpattern CMS":http://textpattern.com/ v4.6+;
* "oui_player":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_player v2+;
* "oui_provider":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_provider v1+.

h2. Plugin management

h3. Installation

h4. From the admin interface

# "Download":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_soundcloud/releases the compiled plugin file or the source to compile a customized file.
# Paste the content of the compiled plugin file under the "Admin > Plugins":?event=plugin tab and click the _Upload_ button.
# Confirm the plugin install by clicking the _Install_ button on the plugin preview page.
# Enable the plugin and click the _Options_ link (or visit the _Preferences_ tab) to set the provider preferences.

h4. Via Composer (not available yet)

After "installing Composer":https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md…

# Target your project directory:
@$ cd /path/to/your/textpattern/installation/dir@
# If it's not already done, lock your version of Txp:
@$ composer require textpattern/lock:4.6.2@, where @4.6.2@ is the Txp version in use.
# Install oui_soundcloud:
@$ composer require nicolasgraph/oui_soundcloud@

h3. Update

h4. From the admin interface

# Follow the installation instruction above.

h4. Via Composer (not available yet)

bc. $ composer update nicolasgraph/oui_soundcloud

h3. Uninstall

h4. From the admin interface

# Check the box on the left of the plugin row under the "Admin > Plugins":?event=plugin.
# open the select list at the bottom of the plugins table and choose _Delete_.
# confirm the plugin deletion.

h4. Via Composer (not available yet)

bc. $ composer remove nicolasgraph/oui_soundcloud

h2. Tags and parameters

h3. oui_soundcloud vs oui_player

While the @<txp:oui_player />@ tag is able to embed any player from any extension-related provider, the @<txp:oui_soundcloud />@ tag is a shortcut to embed Soundcloud player only. It is strictly equivalent to @<txp:oui_player provider="soundcloud" />@.

Check the "oui_player":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_player documentation for more informations.

h4. Recognised values for the @play@ attribute

* http(s)://(api.)soundcloud.com/….

When using the <code>oui_player</code> tag (vs <code>oui_soundcloud</code>), the right provider needs to be set if the <code>play</code> value or its field related one is an ID. It is optional, but can fasten the rendering, if the value is an URL.

h4. Player customization

h5. Preferences vs attributes

While some player customization elements, related to the media to play, should be used through attributes, these used as global settings should preferrably be set through the plugin preferences to avoid a massive use of tag attributes.

Of course, it is still possible to override a preference value via an attribute when needed.

h5. Size

- @width@ :=
Integer; initially set to @100%@.
The width of the player in pixels (OK, pourcentage works also…).
*Default:* related plugin pref =:
- @height@ :=
Integer; initially set to @166@ (alt height is @450@, usually when @visual="true"@).
The height of the player in pixels =:
- @ratio@ :=
Integer[@:@]integer; initially not set.
The ratio used to calculate the missing value for the width or the height. =:
- @responsive@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @false@.
Adapts the final player size from the provided width and/or height and/or ratio values to fit the container width.
Wraps the player and adds some styles. =:

h5. Parameters (a→z)

Some prefs/attributes can conditionate the behavior of others (e.g. <code>visual="true"</code> desactivates <code>color</code>).
From Txp 4.7, paramaters accepting @true@ and @false@ as valid values can be enable through boolean/valueless attributes.

- @auto_play@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @false@.
Whether to play after loading or not. =:
- @buying@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to display the _Buy_ button or not. =:
- @color@ :=
Hexadecimal color value; initially set to @#ff8800@.
Changes the colour of the user interface elements. =:
- @download@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to display the _Download_ button or not. =:
- @hide_related@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @false@.
Whether to display related tracks or not. =:
- @sharing@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to enable the sharing features or not. =:
- @show_artwork@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@;
Whether to display the artwork or not. =:
- @show_comments@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to display comments or not. =:
- @show_reposts@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to display reposts or not. =:
- @show_playcount@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to display the playcount or not. =:
- @show_user@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to display the uploader or not. =:
- @single_active@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @true@.
Whether to stop playing while another player is on or not. =:
- @start_track@ :=
Integer; initially set to @0@;
Specifies the time (in seconds) when the track should start playing. =:
- @theme_color@ :=
Hexadecimal color value; initially set to @#ff3300@.
Changes the color of the player theme. =:
- @visual@ :=
@true@ or @false@; initially set to @false@.
Whether to display the artwork as a background or not. =:

h5. Sets

* Album:
** big:
*** @height="450"@;
*** @visual="true"@.
** medium:
*** @height="300"@.
* track :
** big:
*** @height="300"@;
*** @visual="true"@.
** medium:
*** initial values.

h3. oui_if_soundcloud vs oui_if_player

p. While the @<txp:oui_if_player>…</txp:oui_if_player>@ tag is able to check an URL against any URL from any extension-related provider, the @<txp:oui_if_soundcloud>…</txp:oui_if_soundcloud>@ tag is a shortcut to check an URL against Soundcloud related URL schemes only. It is strictly equivalent to @<txp:oui_if_player provider="soundcloud">…</txp:oui_if_player>@.

Check the "oui_player":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_player documentation for more informations.

h2. Examples

h3. Embed a player using the preference values

bc(language-markup). <txp:oui_player />

"oui_player":https://github.com/NicolasGraph/oui_player preference related field value: @https://soundcloud.com/uiceheidd/lucid-dreams-forget-me@.

h3. Conditionally embed a player using attributes

bc(language-markup).. <txp:oui_if_player provider="soundcloud" play="https://soundcloud.com/uiceheidd/lucid-dreams-forget-me">
    <txp:oui_player height="300" />
</txp:oui_if_player>

p. …or:

bc(language-markup).. <txp:oui_if_soundcloud play="https://soundcloud.com/uiceheidd/lucid-dreams-forget-me">
    <txp:oui_soundcloud height="300" />
</txp:oui_if_soundcloud>

h2. Credits

h3. Author

"Nicolas Morand":https://twitter.com/NicolasGraph
_Thank you to the Textpattern community and the core team._

h3. License

This plugin is distributed under "GPL v2.0":https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt.

oui_soundcloud version 1.0.0-BETA3, Copyright (C) 2018 Nicolas Morand
This Textpattern plugin comes with ABSOLUTELY "NO WARRANTY":https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html#section11.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it "under certain conditions":https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html#SEC3.

h3. Changelog

* *oui_soundcloud v1.0.0-BETA3* (2018-08-15)
* *oui_player v1.3.0* (2017-05-24)
